One thing that students must do during their academic lives is writing a 1000 words essay. This can look like an intimidating number, and many students are left wondering how long it can take. A simple search on the internet will give questions such as “how long is a 1000 words essay?” or “how many pages are in that kind of paper?”
If you have one of these questions, we have prepared some guidelines that can be used to know an exact number of pages that you will end up with. We will also provide an estimate of how long it will take to write the same length of an essay. Read on for knowing the number of pages will make that kind of paper and how long it takes to create such an essay.
Writing is the same: 1000 words are always 1000 words, whatever the topic is, whatever your today writing mood. This doesn’t mean that it is always easy, sometimes it is not and sometimes you look as mesmerized by the blank paper…no ideas, no motion, nothing at all. In this case, a stroll in a park or a coffee break with your friends can play down the impasse and give you new energies.
Read also: "Who can help me with essay writing?"How to write a 1000 word essay: Guidelines for students who want to get A+
Choosing the topic. Not always the topic is given, and the opportunity of choosing the subject of your essay can be a big plus: if you are wondering, "What should I write my essay on?" go for an issue you are well up in or with a lot of available material, both online and in libraries. There are countless possible 1000 words essay topics; a personal point of view is to avoid themes that involve you emotionally, taking otherwise the risk of losing objectivity.
Sketch a general skeleton. Some guidelines defining the overall parameters of your essay can be very helpful in developing your text within certain limits, keeping the focus on the topic and preventing the hazard of going off the subject. Many websites offer different and valid sample schemes you can use to create yours.
Structuring your essay. A 1000-word essay is commonly made of three main parts: introduction, body, conclusion. The introduction explores the topic broadly, arousing the readers' interest and inviting them to look into it. The body is the largest part of outline for essay, where subject and ideas are dissected and supported by arguments and factual data. The conclusion sums up the article, highlighting the salient notions and, possibly, offering some new original ideas and points. Within these macro guidelines, many options are possible, depending on the purpose of your issue; a good idea is to google for some 500 words essay examples and get inspired by those matching, by and large, the general skeleton you have prepared.
Getting inspired boosts creativity, plagiarizing limits it. Usually, I don’t like to write such definitive sentences, but the importance of an original content in essays requires a strong stand indeed. The choice of creating an all-new content rather than using one already written is of course based on responsibility and on respect for others work, but there are other, less evident, reasons you shouldn’t plagiarize. What if your original ideas would be a really great contribution to a further developing of the topic, inspiring other subjects to open new doors and explore different opportunities related to that theme? The crux is no longer on accountability, but on coming out and becoming aware of your worth and your skills. No small feat!
Need more writing assistance?Connect with our top writers and receive 1000 word essay crafted to your needs.TRY EDUBIRDIEReviews.io logoReviews.io1000 Word Essay ExampleTop 1000 Essay Word Questions with Answers:How many pages are 1000 words?
Are you wondering how Many Pages is 1000 Words? You can check this with the help of free online word counter tool. Some factors affect the word count on a page. These include the kind of font used and its size, margins used, spacing elements and the length of paragraphs. If you want a general rule of thumb, a 1000 words essay will consist of:2 pages of Arial font with a font size of 12 and with a single spacing2 pages of Calibri font with a font size of 10 pt and a double spacing4 pages for a Times New Roman font with a font size of 12 and a double spacing
It is also worth noting that different universities have a different definition of the word count on a page. This could be 250, 275 or even 300 words. If an instructor has given such guidelines, only format your paper for fitting the word count.How long does it take to write 1000 words?
After determining the word count, you may be wondering, how long will writing take? Again, this will depend on some factors such as the amount of time taken for research, whether you have good comprehension skills, your planning ability, and typing speed. Here are a few guidelines:
How long will it take me to write 150 words?It will take you 30 minutes to write 150 wordsHow long will it take me to write 300 words?It will take you 1 hour to write 300 wordsHow long will it take me to write 400 words?It will take you I hour 20 minutes to write 400 wordsHow long will it take me to write 500 words?
It will take you 1 hour and 40 minutes to write 500 words
How long will it take me to write 600 words?
It will take you 2 hours to write 600 words
How long will it take me to write 800 words?
It will take you 2 hours and 40 minutes to write 800 words
How long will it take me to write 1000 words?
It will take you 3 hours and 20 minutes to write 1000 words
How many paragraphs will a 1000-word essay be?
The essay’s length will depend on how creative you are and the essay’s structure. You can choose having a 5 paragraph essay or divide all your thoughts into different paragraphs. Take note that the more paragraphs are in your essay, the better. This is because it can be hard reading and comprehend long paragraphs. The good idea has eight paragraphs for 1000 words.
Here are some basic guidelines:
It should be more than 5 paragraphs
It should be less than 10 for easy reading
If you are writing in direct speech, change the paragraph after changing each speaker
What topics are suitable for 1000-word essays?
If your instructor has not given you a topic, your first step when writing an essay is choosing one. Your choice of topic will mostly depend on the needed essay type. Remember that you must create an argument.
You can begin by coming up with a list of potential topics. Then narrow down this list to maximum 3 topics. Ensure that you can easily discuss the 3 essay topics when having a limited allowance of length. You can then conduct initial research for seeing which topic has enough materials to write on. Pick an essay topic to write on with good resources for the research.
Read also: "Need a professional to write my essay for me." EduBirdie.com - your personal writing assistant!
How to write a different types of 1000-word essay
If you are wondering how to write a 1000 words essay, consider what you will write in the different kinds of essays. H